hey guys what is up welcome to another
episode of the creative exchange today I
have my friend doat on with me
whoo so your otherwise known as piano
around the world but it doesn't stop
there
so tell people a little bit about show
sale hey guys so my name is dotan and so
for the last seven years I've been
traveling around the world playing piano
in public spaces meeting people going on
adventures and I like to say throwing
myself into the wind and seeing where I
land because I love I love that idea of
letting myself go and seeing what I can
discover who I can meet what I can learn
in the process piano around the world
isn't just tiny piano or tiny electric
piano you actually bring your massive
real piant like what do you call a real
piano like a big wooden piano how do i
as some people don't understand how
insane it is to bring a massive piano to
countries around the world I mean like
where have you been what are some of the
craziest place places that you've played
your massive wouldn't you know well so
this is an upright piano it's like
there's different types of like uprights
and there's the smaller upright these
mediums large like thousand-pound
uprights then they have like obviously a
grand piano and all that different sizes
so I bring a it's a console upright
piano and I've been anywhere from the
jungles of Costa Rica to California to
withou Swiss Alps well that when I
actually flew to Paris
I bought a piano in Paris for like 300
euro and then I did this whole trip
through Europe and then I sold it at the
end and gave like a piano to this guy
that is so you just get a big trailer
and you put it back there and how ya
like the logistics of it so when you're
in the US do you do the same thing like
you put in a big trailer you drive
around so it's basically like a massive
road trip wherever you go with an
upright piano yeah for some
with the logistics of this yeah it's
been a huge headache it's like actually
I should say backache and then I I just
watched where you brought it in the New
York subway oh yeah I was like did that
take like it the video was so good it's
like like a two and a half minute video
just you bring your own rep you know
subway and it's like such a fun song or
people are smiling but in the back of my
head I'm like how long did it take him
to bring a piano into the super nervous
about this so I've always been it's for
me this has been in the end I'm gonna
have to say like it's never really been
about like oh I want to be the greatest
piano player that ever lived for me it's
like oh let me do this thing that I
enjoy see where it takes me and like how
can I constantly raise the bar how can I
make this more interesting there yeah
how can I make it more interesting so I
thought oh let's bring it let's bring a
piano on the subway no-one's done this
before and honestly I don't think I
would ever do it again because I was
just like really nervous and the piano
is like this it's a what did you put it
on how did it like stay still so that
that was like part of the journey was me
discovering how do i how do I move this
thing so in the first year I had these
two four wheel dollies which was such a
headache such a headache moving it
around and then I eventually found this
special dolly made by this guy in
Georgia called the all-terrain piano
dolly and I called him up in like hey
can you it's can you sponsor making you
like hook me up with one and I'll make
some videos of it I'll promote it and
there are other people who want to bring
their pianos well now apparently there's
a couple other guys doing playing piano
on the streets and they're using the
same dolly so I know that I sold a
couple dollies and there you go yeah you
got the money back that is so crazy
when did you start that like how long
have you been doing that do you still do
it I mean occasionally I see you out in
about New York with your with your piano
well I started playing piano on the
streets in 2010 so that's eight years
ago now and then in 2011 I started
traveling with the piano but in between
that
me figuring out how to move this thing a
piano if one of my pianos fell back when
I was on the street and I landed on my
hand and I literally broke these two
fingers like the tips of these two
fingers you can kind of see yeah it's a
little crud Wow oh my gosh that must
have been so painful it was the worst or
did you just have to leave your piano in
the middle of the road and I was really
in front of the whole foods and they
were like they took me in they brought
ice and they called the ambulance
ambulance and show up so I ended up
walking to the hospital like Lily
dropping a drop of blood every 10 feet
just didn't show up I guess yeah I mean
they'd just been shoving yes I lost I
couldn't play for like three months but
I think it was that experience that
really told me you know I was 23 at the
time and after that happened to me I was
like wow if I if I don't do this if I
don't do this thing that I really want
to do this extraordinary thing with my
life I might never do it and I think
that was the thing that kind of like I
was very emotional at that time and I
thought I wouldn't be able to play music
anymore and I wanted to do this thing
because I was so miserable with my life
just working a crappy job for $12 an
hour working as a personal assistant and
I wanted to do something for me I wanted
to explore and you know at 23 2000
foundation I had a little bit of
foundation there you go to college did
you like it was music always the thing
that you knew you wanted to do no no
actually it was more of like a hobby
I went to college I studied so I slay
theater I was an actor for about 10
years I studied theater and I came out
of college and became the typical actor
and I didn't like that and like I didn't
like needing a director or a theater
company so either people yeah exactly
yeah I I wanted
to be able to create without needing to
have collaborators I want to how can you
know an artist can sit down and paint
the painting by himself and not need
other people or musician can be by
himself but an actor actor has it hard
because all he has is his headshot and
resume and yes the he needs a another
actor and a director and a theater to
actually like create something so do you
still do theater on the side I don't
really do I mean I consider what I do is
a blend of the theatre because I play on
the streets and it's not just music I
love to interact so I left like ask
questions I tell jokes and it's like
really deep down inside of me I really
want to do stand-up comedy oh do
stand-up comedy period so I'm like I'm
trying to bring I'm trying to bring the
theater back now that I feel like is the
most terrifying they never stay I want
to date this playing piano in front of
strangers that that requires a certain
level of just cojones but stand-up oh my
god whenever I've only gone to a
stand-up show maybe twice in my life but
both times I was nervous for the people
on the stage oh I hope you're funny
because I'm gonna feel really
uncomfortable tonight because I am a
person that I I can be straight with
people but my my laugh is very hot how
do I say it
it's not restrained so even if someone
you know tells a terrible joke I don't
find you're so funny
you know cuz I just hate that
uncomfortable feeling Wow
yeah yeah that's amazing okay I'm ready
to see Doulton doing stand-up comedy you
should do that in your space I know
right I could do that yeah yeah yeah
we'll get back to that in a minute but
let's go back to the place of you being
23 and during your hand being in a place
in your life that you were kind of
miserable I think people find themselves
at like the whole quarter century crisis
or maybe they've gone to college they
don't know what they want to do maybe
they spent four years in the life doing
something they don't want to do and
they're like ah life I need to seize the
day
so what was it like like how that's
number one question is you know you're
working at $12 an hour job usually
people's first reaction isn't Oh
let's go travel the world yeah because
you see it as an obstacle like money as
an obstacle you know so how did you just
do it yeah I mean my name is definitely
an obstacle I had to you know work at
the job save up some money but really I
was at a point I was working for this
other guy this artist this other guy I
was working for this artist and I was
delivering paintings for him so I Drive
down from New York to Miami to deliver
some paintings for Art Basel and I was
like three day drive and it was great
like I was like oh I'm travelling and
making money at the same time so I'm
like oh this is cool like I like this
but at the same time I was working for
this other guy working towards his
dreams and I'm like I'm 23 like how why
am I not working towards something that
I want with my life and it was part that
was actually the inspiration to is this
guy in his van cuz he used to travel and
live out of the van and I had this I
came up with this like well I asked
myself the question if I could do
anything in the world what would I do
or what would my ideal life be and I
came up with the idea of like I'm gonna
live out of a van
I'm gonna travel the world and somehow I
have to make money somehow I wanna you
know how am I gonna fund this and at the
time I loved music I loved piano I was
tinkering with the piano I only had
played piano for about four or five
years really like to know I honestly I
was funny about this so in 2010 and 11
like I was playing like Fur Elise on the
street like really crap I wasn't even
that good but I just loved I started
doing it here in City Hall Park
like I would wheel the piano motivation
don't wait for perfect if you're
passionate about something just go and
do it and it might rush into a cool
thing right exactly and I started doing
on the streets but I just loved how I
was meeting people I'm like this is a
great incredible icebreaker great way to
meet people and so I kept doing it
because I enjoyed the experience and
that's how I came up with the idea by
combining this other job and but at the
same time like I had to I was a lot of
struggle because I really wasn't that
good at piano and um and then when I
started doing the trip I was like oh how
cool would it be if I you know started a
YouTube channel and and who knew nothing
about videos and not only was I learning
piano I had to learn like video and
production like I would just set up a
camera on the street like on a tripod
I'm like oh I would make some videos out
of this right I really had no idea what
I was doing Wow have you always known
Casey being around this area it was he
no no
so you didn't have like the 100
subscriber or hundred thousand
subscriber Casey like telling you how to
make videos or anything except like you
know 2012 is when I discovered him mmm
Casey Neistat and he had oh a little bit
over a hundred thousand subscribers and
you were just crazy to think about
um because I mean you're friends with
him right yeah just cuz I mean you're in
the area I'm sure he's seen you I'm a
tree yeah I actually 2014 was when I met
him and he was living you know right
next door over there
yeah whatever three nine five yeah
Broadway and I ran into him on the
street when he had braces like you live
right here that's crazy I kept running
into him I kept talking him like I would
be I was one of those like fanboys okay
man here's check out my youtube channel
yeah I had like 20,000 subscribers at
the time like 10,000 some crap like that
and I just kept writing it to him and we
kept talking and eventually he got yeah
I guess he got used to seeing me I was
like and then he you know he featured me
in a couple of his videos and yeah cuz
the first time I ever met you I didn't
connect the cuz multiple times you've
been in his videos and I you know like
oh cool like that dude who plays a piano
on the streets and so like that was one
person in my brain and then I meant like
dote on I forgot where I met you do you
remember when we met I forget - I have
no idea but it took me a few times of
hanging out with you to realize that you
were the person in Casey's video taking
Vienna on the street
but we're just so crazy when you were in
Europe
did you make money just off of tips do
you have like savings from your job and
then tips yeah I had to save up for that
mainly because gas prices like just
crushed me yeah and then I had to so I
bought the piano I had to like search
around buy a piano it's about 300 euro
and then I rented a van I forget how
much that was like less than the cost of
rent in New York I was like all right
this is cool I could do this without you
know it's the cost of living in New York
and then I started traveling and there
was like gas came but I was I was still
making money I was doing gigs on the
side and end up being lost but not lost
lost in terms of finances but I gained
in terms of like I made so many friends
and actually I have a good story because
at that time was 2014 Facebook had this
tool called graph search I remember this
and you were literally able to go onto
Facebook and type in pianists that live
in Amsterdam and you get a list like 50
piano players and we just message all of
them like hey hey I'm here let's jam
it's Jam and I ended up meeting this one
guy named avi Shai was an incredible
piano player and he invited me over to
his house for dinner ended up becoming
like really good friends of them ended
up staying in his house and yeah I
became best friends and yeah just
through this graph search thing that we
don't even have anymore so that's that's
one of the cool that's so cool you
that's almost like making Facebook more
of a LinkedIn
I feel like cuz you could search people
who do similar professions in your area
that's called you simply use Facebook
not really yeah like my teachers like to
connect with friends or do you use it to
spread piano stuff around or I don't use
it I don't have one you don't have one
no I don't have a personal one I have
like a Sarah DG page where I'll post
stuff occasionally yeah um but it's like
okay so I fourteen thousand likes and it
gets like 30 likes because Facebook
doesn't show anything to anyone it's a
very discouraging plot yeah but people
still use it personally for it to
connect with high school friends I just
don't
care about high school friend yeah I
don't need to talk to you guys right
forward I think you're saying that
because I I asked that question to my
people also and no I don't use Facebook
as much as I I feel like I feel there's
so many tools and things and only so
much time it's it's it's hard to manage
all these things actually actually one
of my my questions to you
Oh turntables but the question of like
you know you have so many tools how do
you manage through all of them how do
you post and keep it keep it update and
keep your fans updated that's why I have
let go of certain things I used to be
really stressed out about oh my gosh
this account is so good at Facebook okay
I need to re-strategize about Facebook
and I would stress out about that and
then I would stress out about oh if I
want to be seen as this professional
entrepreneur or something that word is
said so loosely nowadays that kind of
irks me but the same time like Oh
LinkedIn I need to have a presence on
LinkedIn and you know I saw these social
medias because other people are doing
good things with it I was like I need to
do it um but the moment I said okay I'm
not good at those I don't like those so
I'm not gonna do those is when I started
succeeding more on YouTube Instagram
Twitter like the platforms that I
actually enjoy because you know I don't
have to hire someone to post on
Instagram and Twitter for me because I
love it it's fun and so yeah I have I
always say I've kind of a disadvantage
especially when it comes to videos is
because I love editing videos so it
doesn't sound like that much of a chore
you know people who maybe their passion
is piano or quilting or something you
know they have to then go and learn how
to edit videos and there's that extra
step but yeah you just I feel like you
just have to just roll with what you
like start there you know and then if
you have time or the resources to maybe
pay someone to you know expand it
Bandon do it but you also have to
realize I think what you're trying to do
if I'm trying to sell an e-book I should
be on Facebook like I should understand
Facebook marketing I should understand
how to put you know little tracking
things on links that people click to
Facebook for any things right and so I
think it depends what your game is my
game is content and usually my main
stream of revenue is just brands and
sponsorships and partnering with them so
if I was more product centric I would
probably be more focused on Facebook
interesting that's good that's actually
really good advice mm-hmm for me yeah
you recently made an album right I did I
recently this is funny I did this whole
thing for about 7 years and played piano
and I never released any music well or
but I had one of these zoom h6 recorder
well actually I had the ace 4 it was
like before yeah yeah yeah and I would
just set it up everywhere and I would
and I know this probably kind of bad I
know this kind of bad but like I'm not
bad but I would set it up and make
people would come and I would have
conversate like really deep
conversations so I have this not only do
I have like incredible stack of like 30
terabytes of video I have so many audio
recordings of conversations that I had
with like heroin addicts and drug
addicts and just random people up dote
on why is that not a podcast I know well
so that's what I did the album is kind
of like it's a it's a 25 track it's kind
of like a podcast is my first album yes
door really know what a broadcast music
album exactly there's a I picked out
like the 10 best conversations that I
had with people like one guy that I met
in Salt Lake City who I was playing
piano in my in my truck my van in the
back which by the way I had my first car
that I ever bought and bought on eBay
and this is the travel around the world
was a yellow Penske moving truck and
that's right I lived I lived out of this
yellow Penske moving truck
12-foot box truck and had my piano back
there and I had carpet I set up with
carpeting but I'm going back to Salt
Lake City I met this guy who was raised
Mormon and he became a monk for about a
year and spent a year living doing Kriya
yoga but studying under this what is
that Kriya yoga it's a form yeah but he
studied under this ninety nine year old
guru I'm doing you know breath work and
learn basically learning to control your
your mind with breath and he told me the
story of they brought in these
scientists that hook up EKGs or whatever
sensors and this guy was literally able
to stop his heart using two breaths able
to stop his heart from beating and come
back to life as well could bring it back
I didn't really tell that story pretty
well oh my god every I had this thing
recording I had one of these h4 is
recording the whole conversation and I
put it in so maybe this is like a blonde
delicate question to ask but like why
would you want to like stop your heart
and restart it well because you know
this guy got to a point where he has the
power to do the right so it's more about
control and like knowing your body oh
the ideas that you get so deep of
awareness and control in your mind that
you can literally leave your body
essentially you can literally leave your
body and come back oh yeah man
yeah I bet you have some crazy
conversations crazy stories this is
maybe too crazy a question but has
anyone ever tried to like steal your
piano would it be possible like has
anyone ever got mad maybe that's not the
right question I know that's that
they're playing like stop by police or I
don't know cuz I feel like maybe some
crazy homeless person would be like oh
you know that's worth money and we try
to like roll it away from you or
something well so no one's really tried
to steal the piano itself cuz I
sometimes I just because I know no one's
gonna try to boom I don't know
but it's happy when I go like pick up my
car like I parked my car then I bring
the piano but when I have to go get the
piano back in the van
I leave the piano there I close it up
and push it up against the wall and I
just go and sometimes I'll leave for
like an hour and I'll come back to an
Oslo there but I have had issues with
I've had a lot of issues with police
like you can't play here somebody's
complaining you have to have a permit to
play here and there's like no this is my
First Amendment right I have actually
made a video about this really I did a
life he was a lot live stream on
periscope it was a big thing with you
right yeah I was loved I loved periscope
because it's a an amazing way to like
interact it's like a facetiming with
your audience but I had I did some cool
stuff from 2016 where I I was like in
the middle of the desert in New Mexico
and I had service so I'm like I'm gonna
do a livestream in this desert where
there's no one for miles for like 60
miles and I did a live stream for about
thousand people and at the end of the
live stream I was like hey guys I'm
gonna go to the next town and grab a
burrito so if you guys enjoyed this and
you want to buy me lunch
there's a PayPal link below and when
they're making like 300 bucks which
ended up taking me like all the way back
home maybe with gas and all that so a
lot of like cool experiments with
periscope which is fun I feel like it's
not a thing anymore but I guess it is
just because it's integrated with
Twitter but it makes me kind of sad that
the actual standalone app isn't use
anymore because it has so much potential
what do you think about live video do
you think it's this thing that keeps
trying to be but just fails every time
because I think there's so many
companies who are trying to make it cool
yeah and I think it does work really
well in other apps so people are
Instagram liveing people are going live
on Twitter but very rarely do you see
people standalone apps like you know or
I feel like you know is kind of dead or
periscope the the app I mean do you see
potential in that do you think it's not
the right time I love live video and
I've been experimenting with live video
sin
2015 or so and the reason why I love it
is because I think you build the
strongest connection with your audience
because again it is like your facetiming
with your audience and I love live video
I use a lot of I do a lot of YouTube
lives
I still use periscope here in there
because I actually built a decent
following on there but actually here's a
good story I was doing a live stream
last year on the streets in New York
like I do every Saturday or Sunday when
it's warm out and I play piano on the
streets I interact with people
there's just beautiful I'm having these
amazing interactions with people through
like through all over the world on
livestream but I'm also interacting with
people on the streets and then they're
interacting together so there's this
double layer of audience but also like
last year I was playing piano on the
streets and doing a live stream and this
guy I was talking like this I'm just
talking about my experiences and one of
the guys on YouTube live goes hey you
want to come to a TED talk and now I'm
doing a TED talk in TEDx talk in France
because I was doing a livestream
he asked via periscope yeah YouTube is
amazing so are you gonna play piano and
talk or just do the talk I'm gonna play
I'm gonna type still figuring it out
yeah I'm gonna play so cool so they're
flying you out there yeah fly me out
there and yeah and they got that through
livestream you just never know I think
yeah you're never gonna meet her like
yeah it's crazy and people have invited
me over to their houses through YouTube
like hey we're having a Halloween party
come hang out with us we love what
you're doing I'm like yes sir in so many
times I feel like people need the
instant payoff of how am I gonna make
money from this I don't want to do this
because I can't make at least a thousand
dollars with this and I think a lot of
people miss out on the coolest
experiences because they're looking for
that short term gain when in reality you
don't know what person you're going to
meet a lot livestream you don't know the
10 people that you're gonna meet on the
streets of New York that might change
your life forever
and it sounds like you have so many like
genuine interactions and friends that
I'm sure started with you playing the
piano right yeah yeah actually most of
my friends now are because I met them on
the street and we connected and I mean
you can go after directly after like how
much money this is making me but I
recently read a quote network is your
net worth hmm in that you know it's it's
the relationships really I've really
become over the years understanding of
how important relationships are in
building a career just building a life
that you love and enjoy in cities like
New York I think it can be very
intimidating but at the same time I
think it's just unlimited the amount of
people you can yeah but I think some
people might get intimidated by just the
grandeur of this city you know and maybe
that's the reason that they don't go to
that like networking event or something
good I think if you're open to it and
you start it it's just it's snowballs so
quickly yeah that's yeah actually that
is my reason why I play why I still play
piano on the streets like I'm not making
a ton of money doing it but I'm always
like Who am I gonna meet you know what I
got invited to this TED talk where where
will I get invited to next because I'm
playing piano on the streets and I've
been to invited to a lot of interesting
events and like house part Soho loft
house party yeah I went to a dinner once
cuz I was invited to a I was invited to
his dinner once because I was playing
piano on the street and it ends up being
a dinner with all these guys that work
at Google and there's a CEO of some
magazine and I forgot a media company
just getting invited to places because
I'm like I do this cool thing that yeah
so cool so cool
music question I've played the guitar
for like ten years now just crazy it
makes me sad that I don't play as much
but I was watching a video of you and
like Amsterdam and a dude coming up and
like improving with you is super cool
you know you're just like carrying the
ribbon and he was like going ham on the
other side when it comes to piano is
improv the same in terms of on guitar
you know all
you learn the pentatonic scale so you
know the five different positions on the
guitar that you know all of these notes
are gonna sound good in a song that's in
the key of you know a or whatever so you
have these notes to choose from is that
similar on piano if you just know your
scales you're like okay this is what I
can improv in because it was so good and
everything sounded so good so I was like
how how yeah you that's that's it okay
chords are essentially playing single
notes well chords are single notes
chords are the building block of
multiple notes and that you can play any
of those notes but then you can learn
different scales that would sound good
on top of that chord right so that what
you just said is so it's similar in
piano so cuz I've always wanted to learn
piano at the same time I'm like I should
probably just get better at guitar you
know but I feel like if you have the
basic skill level on one instrument you
could transfer that knowledge kind of
yeah you can do you know how to
sight-read I can say Reed it's not my
strength and my strength is definitely
being able to flow I guess the idea is
you know you you learn it I just I tell
people this on my when I do live streams
is that you have to think of it like
learning a language you know you learn
the letters and then you learn how to
put words together and then once you
know the words you can then start
learning how to build sentences together
and you can learn phrases from other
people by like oh listening to a song
and then learning a phrase it's it's
exactly like learning a language and if
you think of it like that it becomes I
think easier instead of like looking at
this thing that's very kind of archaic
and you know how do I figure this out
but it's actually I think music is a
little bit I think it's simpler than a
lot of people might think when I this
sounds like such a simple thing and
musicians listening out there forgive me
but when I figured out there is only 12
notes in like music as excuse me
like what do you mean there's no cuz you
know music is so diverse and you can
make so many different
and there's so much variation and it was
so weird to know that I mean of course
you can put so many notes together and
make different sounds like what do you
mean there's only like 12 notes or like
twelve I don't know that in the very
beginning that was confusing to me well
here's what's interesting you look at
the the entire spectrum of like Hertz
basically the 12 notes it's just a way
of humans dividing up those Hertz like
there's for example there's instruments
in Indian music that go between those 12
notes like let's say there's an A and an
a-flat there are still notes in between
the a and a flat we just organized it
this way it's 12 all right so maybe when
you're like bending a string on a guitar
or something you're kind of reaching
that note but yeah it's interesting that
there are actual instruments that will
go there yeah it's it's really that it's
like magical it's incredible it speaks
to humans on a deeper level with you
know without words you can make someone
cry yeah make someone feel something
it's actually that that was the initial
thing the reason why I got into music
because I was listening to we got into
jazz it was like a jazz head in college
and I would only listen to jazz for five
years straight but I love the way Miles
Davis and Bill Evans and all these jazz
cats in the song blue and green we're
able to like I was crying but they
weren't speaking any words doing
something like this is like magic that
guy want to be able to recreate that
that's so cool I think it's just it's
magical yes well you are just showing me
something on your phone because you said
you're getting back into DJing yes which
is like sick because you know
traditionally people think turntables
are just like playing a you know Spotify
playlist or something so how do you DJ
what are you doing right now like and
who are you DJing for so I've just been
in the last maybe four months sorry six
months I've been exploring different
sounds like ambien sounds like nature
sounds
I've just been taking these sounds and
textures and like the sounds of birds
with the sound of water flowing and then
I'll play piano on top of it I've been
doing these yoga and meditation events
and literally deejaying with these
sounds and exploring to see basically
okay yeah honestly is probably you
probably find more work doing that than
being like a classic DJ I guess
especially in New York I feel like
everyone is doing yoga yeah everyone
like yoga Pilates meditation say yeah
meditation Oh cute can we play some of
those sounds yeah you're you're playing
for me earlier and the one that stood
out was just kind of the the sense you
know it's it's really more powerful when
you have it with headphones yeah but if
you go they'll be able to hear it that
way when you have it in like a space
it's so crazy
[Music]
I'll be like okay enter into the pose
are you guys relaxed we should do so
knowing it we should so you'll take that
and you'll play piano only piano on top
of this and top of it so what what kind
of mood is your piano I'm like what do
you I guess it is kind of just like I'm
in a meadow so kind of just like
sprinkling and notes here in there yeah
I'm I'm really interested in the use of
music as a function so for how do I use
music to heighten relaxation how do I
use music to change my brain States or
how to change other people's brain
States and there's been I mean since the
50s and 60s has been a lot of studying
on have you heard of binaural beats but
the use of sound to relax or help with
healing so there's a lot of people in
the 60s and 70s have been exploring this
I'm still a novice when it comes to all
of this but I'm that's that's really why
I got into this is because I'm curious
about how to use these things as a
function and I'm also interested now in
lighting how do I use this with lighting
and I'm interested in creating live
experiences now and that's kind of the
the evolution of what piano it started
with piano in the world and be
performing on the streets and traveling
the world now I'm kind of like staying
put but really exploring and developing
a live experience through sounds so cool
and not only is it just you and your
piano and your sounds on your stuff but
yeah you now have a physical space in
New York that it's relatively new right
how long you have a ground level
commercial space that you rent out it's
is still so
no time to tell me about your new spot
so well about a year and a half ago I
saw this opportunity and I took it and
so basically I took over this honestly
there's a another thing like I want to
I'm so curious about you know we're salt
we're also visual know it is I'm so
curious about how do I tell like I want
to put people in a dark room and I want
to tell a story just through sound
because the whole the entire experience
entire show is happening in their in
their brains and their imaginations like
that's that's a kind of experience to
them I want to just told you my secret
yeah creative exchange exclusive no
you're expecting from dote on next yeah
that's that's what I'm exploring but
like we don't even notice that look see
now when I when I take it out it's so
powerful and now all of our listeners
are asleep time to wake up everyone
we're back and we are back
brought to you by Sarah did you go
choose like oh yeah so you now have a
commercial spot that you rent out to
pop-up shops events tell me a little bit
about that that's exciting
yeah it's it's very exciting it's been
incredible it's like the second phase of
learning and I'm putting all these
pieces that I've learned over the last
20 years of my life I'm putting all
these pieces together now in this space
and I kind of see it like my it's like
my theatre because I you know I rigged
lights I do sound I do all different
kinds of interesting things with
projection now but I I got this
I found this opportunity about a year
and a half ago there's this I used to
work with this marketing company and
they they were the ones that built this
space but after 2 2 or 3 years they
decided to not renew their lease but
they're but I kept bugging them like hey
let me do an event let me do like I'm
networking thing or let me do a a yoga
class
let me do some kind of music event and
they kind of brushed me off but then
when it came to her new there at least
they were like oh we're not gonna renew
it but you should take it over and see
what you could do with it so I was like
ah I've never really run a space before
I've never done pop-ups but I was like
sure let's do it let's I'm open to this
new experience and it's been a year and
a half now I've been running the space
and it's been it's been a crazy
experience just learning I'm learning
everyday and it's I love it I love it
even though it's like I don't work
it's so much work and but you you see
you are renting it and then you're
renting it yeah from for other people
yeah yeah I'd rent you to other people
yeah cuz traditionally ya do don't you
have to own an order to rent or is just
the landlord cool and he's like I
understand I have a steady income of
rent so you can do whatever you want or
its commercial real estate different cuz
I know in New York if you're renting an
apartment you cannot sublease like you
cannot Airbnb your place so is it
different with commercial real estate
where if you're renting you know this
one space for X amount of money you can
then go and rent it out to other people
yeah I mean it depends on the lease on
the landlord and stuff like that okay so
just person-to-person yeah but also like
if I'm doing the production or it's
obviously it's you know insurance you
have to have insurance and making sure
we're straight under that but other than
that yeah I'm basically either
subletting it subleasing it or I'm doing
the production for people now which is
so you can kind of give them a package
jewel and say hey you have the space
but you also have lights and visuals and
yeah and also the beauty yeah that's
cool was there a learning curve in terms
of renting out space to people or do you
know people who have experience with
that what was like what was that like
meeting because it sounds kind of
intimidating a little bit but honestly
there that's what's crazy what's
happening now is that in the last four
four years or so commercial real estate
has been going downhill because no one
wants to pay these huge leases for ten
years no one wants to be no one needs to
have like a long-term lease because
everybody's selling on the internet so
now these these companies these big
companies are are just creating small
experiences to get to get the consumer
to experience it in in real life but
only for like a week or a month they're
they're not renting these long leases
for hundreds of thousands of dollars so
it's an interesting dynamic that's
happening that you know there's a lot of
pop up activity that's happening around
the city now because there's so many
empty spaces
I've noticed that walking around in our
neighborhood really in terms of Canal
Street and Tribeca Soho Chinatown it's
insane to see how many first floor
retail spaces are just like call this
number a real estate there's so many
open spaces for rent I feel like and do
you think that is because no one wants
to like these big real estate companies
who are renting out do you think they
would be better of just taking it
themselves and renting it out like a
pop-up shop and like leasing it by the
day instead of month of course it's a
lot of work it's more work yeah it's
more work but man I mean just some of
these places on our street just off
Broadway I feel like I've seen the same
sign for like six months yeah like oh
you're probably losing money yeah I mean
I guess there's there's certain ways
with these landlords the way they can
deduct or whatever right but yeah you're
right it's crazy there's there's
vacancies all over the city look at Soho
I think it was like 45 percent or 50
percent vacant which Soho is like the
main you know shopping hub of this
area and it's hip and Happiness I was
listening to a podcast with Scott
Galloway who's a super intelligent
person but they were talking about
retail and how in the United States that
basically like retail compared to how
many people we actually have in the
states it's like some I don't remember
this statistic but basically we have way
too much retail like it doesn't even
compare to any other place in the world
the brick-and-mortar presence in the
u.s. is just astronomical compared to
the people and do you think that's gonna
lead these huge commercial buildings in
New York to shift or residential because
I feel like we always need more space in
New York for people but then I guess
that means okay well we need more
restaurants we need more grocery stores
so that I guess could go along with it
yeah I'm very happy yeah yeah I mean you
see you see all like if you look around
there's all these developments all over
even right here like one there one there
I'm always on the corner that huge
beautiful cast-iron building the big
tops so beautiful like from the eighteen
late 1800s is it the white one yeah the
big on the corner with the columns and
yeah it's so beautiful
all I do that's being developed for
residents oh yeah all these buildings
now there's tons of these cast-iron
buildings that are being developed into
residential and hmm yeah it's happening
so you see all the development in Hudson
Yards with all the mess you know Hudson
Yards is becoming its own little Midtown
it's crazy because it's so close but you
know you see all these massive buildings
going up and it's for businesses but
also residential do you think that these
massive residential buildings are gonna
lower the price of these like dinky
five-floor walk-up s'
cuz when I first moved to New York I was
in a five-floor walk-up right by Penn
Station you by Penn station.i Penn
Station so it was literally one Avenue
away from Penn Station one Avenue one
block and so you know if you're not from
New York I think I talked about this in
a recent podcast like New Yorkers see
the Penn Station area as like gross
and so I was paying a crazy amount of
money for a tiny one-bedroom apartment
on the fifth floor
no elevator floor with mice and then I
moved maybe just a few blocks uptown and
it's more Midtown area but it's a
doorman building we have an elevator
it's nice but it's only maybe like five
hundred dollars more in rent and so my
mind was so blown by that that I just I
feel like as the bigger buildings come
up I do you think these like five-floor
walk-up so that look pretty on the
outside but have no amenities like do
they have a shot I feel like it's gonna
lower no cuz you wants to lower their
price no I know I know but who's gonna
live there if they can just pay a little
bit more and live in like a freakin
high-rise building week I think the
neighborhood people are living their
custom neighborhood too and the
restaurant the area you know that's true
like you live in Lower East Side because
you
cousin Larry said yeah yeah yeah
no that's true I just in my brain I'm
like why would anyone
I guess my I agree with you you know I'm
living in this old building now on the
fourth floor yeah no elevator I was
thinking about the other day I was
thinking like yesterday everything like
oh man I remember talking to Sarah about
this she was living in this old and now
I'm living in the old thing with the
heating because it cool I like the
neighborhood living in New York gets
push you push and pull you know you give
up some things for ackley you have a
sacrifices there the heater all this
heater yeah it's it's got this little
thing that it blows out air the hot air
like Shh
Shh and I'm like sleeping and it's just
like Shh and it turns on and off right
yeah no surprise so when I had that old
school system you know in my first
apartment it would wake me up almost
every single night because it's not like
it's constant and then it's just white
noise it's so startling because it'll be
quiet and I was like yeah my broken but
they never figure out how to fix it so
it was like double as loud oh oh right
wide so now I'm covering it with a towel
and it's lowering the sound does that
not from scare culture you're by
everyone Sam lives there Brandon lives
there Lower East Side I think Brett sure
yeah he's there more in like the East
Village do you think okay so I'm a
little bit more south how long have you
lived in New York I was born here
born and bred and raised mostly in Long
Island as well so that's a Long Island
when I was like seven what are the
different areas that you've lived when
you've been a working human adult have
you always been in Manhattan or Brooklyn
Queens I went to Brooklyn last year okay
which is cool I just uh
if I'm working in Manhattan I'm really
trying to eliminate my travel time hmm I
think I'll learn it from Casey I think
he like used to live right there yeah
but yeah I'd rather live close to works
I don't have to sit an hour every day on
a subway and it's pretty much what I do
you know it's literally five minutes
bike ride to work that's a nice swell
it's much better
I've lived all over I lived the Upper
East Brooklyn so here's a funny story I
used to live out of my van and around
2016 I was still living in my van in New
York City and I would sleep in like
Tribeca like the richest ZIP code in my
van and now this is kind of a weird
thing but I did it cuz I was like I want
to I want to see what this is like like
I'm not gonna pay rent
and so I won I haven't made this video I
wanted to make this video for a long
time I've liked how to live in New York
City
rent free on the streets and there was
one night where I was like sleeping in
the van
I think someone saw me or complained and
all of a sudden a cop I seemed my far
away creeps up and he has one of those
lights and I'm in the back so I
literally covered covers and he's
shining this I have liked inside my van
yeah he's shining the slide to see like
well who's in there and I was like so my
heart's like beating
I can't I'm telling you this story
that's so good see I've had some really
weird like so what happened did you just
leave did you move your van after that
no I just think there he see me he
didn't see he didn't see me I was like
an abandoned car you better watch out
like you could've got towed
well you were like so it was quite fine
I mean I've had other experiences where
like you know I'd still hear like people
walking or there were nights where I was
like really cold I'm like how am I doing
this myself just to kind of like avoid
paying rent being like kind of like a
dirty musician or ever traveling
musician this like this ideal idea this
idea movies yeah where you get the good
stories and when you're in your 20s why
not exactly that's especially what's a
learning experience
yeah let's you know I'd rather be faced
with like serious challenges yeah and
failed and not do it at all like you're
always gonna learn something if you you
know now I'm sounding like these
one-liner that's true you know because
often you learn more I would argue when
you fail right I mean there's a lot of
and if you have the right attitude they
don't even seem like failures because
right I truly have failed so many times
just whether it was like basketball or
music but in my brain they don't really
seem like failures because they're what
led me to what I do now and I love what
I do now and so yeah who's raising the
bar oh is like with the next it's gone
the subway with the piano yeah
you know so what's what's next Doh time
what's your next bar that you're gonna
mix this bar really I think it's this
building yeah one day in multiple spaces
yeah yeah I mean now I'm just I'm
continuing I'm still working I'm doing
like pop-ups or whatever I want to
develop live experiences I want to
really spend more time developing that
and you know maybe like a live music
show I wanted to I also wanna I had this
idea recently uh kind of John about this
about developing about doing pop-ups for
for influencers for creators like let's
do let's create a pop-up experience and
invite merch but also like what if we
had exclusive content that's only
available in a live setting playing with
ideas I always leave about something the
other day in terms of normal people they
have bars to go to you know like go grab
a beer with your buds and like bro out
get lit like do whatever the cool kids
are doing and that's a central hub for
people like that it's it's a space that
you can just go to it really anytime the
day and like hang out with people I'm
like what what is that
Speight like is that a cowork is that a
we work for us or hi I feel like there
should be like a bar that serves like
sparkling water with cool I don't know
just where the culture is less getting
drunk and like screaming at each other
yeah but more Oh what's a central place
where people are open to having a
conversation and just being creative
yeah you know like how can you create a
bar scene but for creators and business
people right and it's not just about I
mean to be honest I'm bored with bars I
think it's it's so boring I I'm
interested in creating an experience or
creating an environment that people are
or can be creative but also like there's
something interesting and something that
challenges you maybe you know I don't
know I don't know if you know
I don't know if you experienced up I
think bars are you just stand around and
talk and nothing really exciting happens
it's just the you know doing this over
and over again it's kind of boring
exactly and I guess coffee shops can
kind of be like that but they're not as
social because you have that social
aspect you go you hang out with friends
maybe you talk to a stranger coffee shop
it's almost like I have my laptop I'm
doing work I don't bother yeah so it's
like how do we create that bar scene
with a coffee and sparkling water and
being creative so yeah you know because
I think that would be so cool maybe it's
just the idea of a more social coffee
shop I don't know yeah but different
aspects to go and film or do something I
don't know right how do we create this
environment that people can still be
Social Work creatives doesn't guess it
doesn't have to be creatives but because
I think everyone can be creative
I think so too yeah you know as people
don't exercise I think I think of it as
like a muscle that people a lot of
people don't exercise I feel like
there's so many we could go into so many
you know we have all these little red
holes
bad news you know and I think co-working
spaces are doing a good job of trying to
bridge that I think that yeah but that
requires you know that monthly
membership it's yes keep it available
though like the alcohol is there because
that that's not changing the bills no
that's true so and I guess that's why
our coffee is five dollars yeah right
because they gotta pay the in your
current somehow I mean okay so there's a
lot of problems to solve if we don't
solve them you guys should solve them so
we just we just gave you some good good
ideas guys their time thank you so much
for being on the podcast let's end it
with with one like just let's turn on
the trash come to a five-minute minutes
ago bring your birds in exactly the
people out there who want to make that
leap into may be doing something crazy
traveling to Europe and playing music
traveling to Europe and making a video
series
maybe it's something with real estate
they want to dip their toes in the water
what yeah
give gifts some advice in terms of like
how did you make that leap how do you
make that leap honestly the way I look
back now and I see it I've been seeing
this as like I'm just I'm taking the
cards that life is dealing me and I'm
playing the cards that I have and seeing
where that leads and sometimes a card
might not work and I'll have to try
another card and see you know what
relationships that brings are I mean for
me it's it's constantly been an openness
it's been very difficult to trust but I
think when you trust and you really
believe in your exploring and it's a
mixture of trust and action and if you
and if you could put the two together
you can really discover and explore and
and find find a way to make it work I
think yeah but you got to play those
cards
yeah just figure out if they're gonna
work or not yeah so play those cards
guys play the cards thank you guys so
much for tuning in
Thank You dowton where can people find
you what are your all of your handles
check me out it's piano around on
YouTube Twitter Instagram hit me up send
me a message I'm down to chat I do this
thing on Instagram I'm like hey DME and
I got like 50 d-ends I'm like hey guys
chatting with people like if you have
questions and yeah
I love I love connecting I love
connecting with you guys it's fine good
up done guys thank you so much for being
show if you're watching this on youtube
you can also listen on Apple podcasts on
Google stitcher anywhere where you
listen to podcasts if you're listening
you can see us in the physical see what
we look like at youtube.com slash the
creative exchange but the point is
wherever you are hopefully you can
listen or experience the creative
exchange in some way so until next time
guys keep creating and we're gonna we're
gonna outro with some oh yeah some
crickets some let's just saw to a
collective meditation for a few seconds
we are gonna go kill it and be creative
here we go oh yes love it
[Music]